# Naive snapshot-type commits

The fundamental motivation behind a version control system is to keep track
of changes to a file or set of files so you can look back or revert to old
versions, and collaborate on them systematically.

The most basic way to implement a VCS is something we've all likely done,
whether knowingly or unknowingly, which is to create copies of file(s) at
points where we might need to access them again, renaming them to reflect their
version, like `thesis_draft_1`, `thesis_draft_2`, etc, with `thesis` itself
being the file with work still in progress. In git terminology, each of these
versions is called a commit.

This version of `rat` implements the simplest way to automate these kinds of
commits. It creates a nest folder inside `.rat` in a given directory, and
whenever you need to commit, it simply copies over the contents of the directory
into a commit subdirectory inside of the nest.

Here's an example that would be generated by 2 commits in a nest containing only
a single file.

```
thesis/
    .rat/
        HEAD
        commit-0/
            thesis.latex
        commit-1/
            thesis.latex
    thesis.latex
```

The `HEAD` file is a plaintext file containing the number of the latest commit,
in this case `1`, which we need in order to correctly create a new commit,
simply by incrementing it by one and creating the folder with the new number.

Ultimately, these concepts - storing snapshots of the state of the nest in a
commit, and using plaintext files to keep track of important state - will be the
foundation of the complex functionality we need for a more usable VCS.
